Document temporal tables (#4252)
dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs: entity-framework/core/providers/sql-server/temporal-tables.md

﻿---
title: Microsoft SQL Server Database Provider - Temporal Tables - EF Core
description: Using SQL Server/Azure SQL temporal tables (aka system-versioned tables) with EF Core
author: ajcvickers
ms.date: 02/11/2023
uid: core/providers/sql-server/temporal-tables
---

# SQL Server/Azure SQL temporal tables

[SQL Server temporal tables](/sql/relational-databases/tables/temporal-tables) automatically keep track of all data ever stored in a table, even after that data has been updated or deleted. This is achieved by creating a parallel "history table" into which timestamped historical data is stored whenever a change is made to the main table. This allows historical data to be queried, such as for auditing, or restored, such as for recovery after accidental mutation or deletion.

EF Core supports:

* The creation of temporal tables using [EF Core Migrations](xref:core/managing-schemas/migrations/index)
* Transformation of existing tables into temporal tables, again using Migrations
* Querying historical data

> * Restoring data from some point in the past

Reviewer: Is "reading" more accurate than "restoring"? Restoring sounds like the ability to revert the entire table to some past state.

Author: Restoring is what I show in the example. That is, reading data from some previous point in time and then updating the current state with that data.

## Configuring a temporal table

The model builder can be used to configure a table as temporal. For example:

<!--
modelBuilder
    .Entity<Employee>()
    .ToTable("Employees", b => b.IsTemporal());
-->
[!code-csharp[SimpleConfig](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore6/TemporalTablesSample.cs?name=SimpleConfig)]

> [!TIP]
> The code shown here comes from [TemporalTablesSample.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/EntityFramework.Docs/tree/main/samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore6/TemporalTablesSample.cs).

> When using EF Core to create the database, the new table will be configured as a temporal table with the SQL Server defaults for the timestamps and history table. For example, consider an `Employee` entity type:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using EF Core to create the database, the new table is configured as a temporal table with the SQL Server defaults for the timestamps and history table. For example, consider an `Employee` entity type:
```

<!--
    public class Employee
    {
        public Guid EmployeeId { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; }
        public string Position { get; set; }
        public string Department { get; set; }
        public string Address { get; set; }
        public decimal AnnualSalary { get; set; }
    }
-->
[!code-csharp[Employee](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore6/TemporalTablesSample.cs?name=Employee)]

> The temporal table created will look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The temporal table created looks like this:
```

<!--
var employees = context.Employees.ToList();
foreach (var employee in employees)
{
    var employeeEntry = context.Entry(employee);
    var validFrom = employeeEntry.Property<DateTime>("ValidFrom").CurrentValue;
    var validTo = employeeEntry.Property<DateTime>("ValidTo").CurrentValue;

    Console.WriteLine($"  Employee {employee.Name} valid from {validFrom} to {validTo}");
}
-->
[!code-csharp[TrackingQuery](../../../../samples/core/Miscellaneous/NewInEFCore6/TemporalTablesSample.cs?name=TrackingQuery)]

This prints:

```none
Starting data:
  Employee Pinky Pie valid from 8/26/2021 4:38:58 PM to 12/31/9999 11:59:59 PM
  Employee Rainbow Dash valid from 8/26/2021 4:38:58 PM to 12/31/9999 11:59:59 PM
  Employee Fluttershy valid from 8/26/2021 4:38:58 PM to 12/31/9999 11:59:59 PM
```

Notice that the `ValidTo` column (by default called `PeriodEnd`) contains the `datetime2` max value. This is always the case for the current rows in the table. The `ValidFrom` columns (by default called `PeriodStart`) contains the UTC time that the row was inserted.

## Querying historical data

> EF Core supports queries that include historical data through several new query operators:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EF Core supports queries that include historical data through several specialized query operators:
```
